The crisis in Paraguay transcends the
region the president of colombia juan
Manuel Santos reported that some of the
Heads of State of the Union of Nations
South American unasur will have a meeting
of emergency to lay a position
joint on political tension
Paraguayan in the extraordinary meeting
the attending representatives will participate
to the river +20 conference held in
rio de janeiro-brasil ntn24 is with the
protagonists at this time we greet the
solution to roberto fields that
the president graciously attends us
of the beloved homeland party one of the
groupings that supported the trial
politician to the president fernando lugo
deputy welcome thank you for
accompany us
thank you very much andrea and I greet jaime and
through you throughout Latin America
a fraternal hug from Panama not very
kind because they decided what are the
arguments that the political group has
of you to join the group of
parliamentarians who supported the trial
politician to the president lugo
yes as not as you will know andrea the
dear country party that make up
part block party party
of opposition
to the government of fernando lugo us
we have tried already in some other
occasion to bring the impeachment
this poor performance in his functions at
president lugo and frankly we have not
obtained the necessary votes we
we start from the premise that our
error within the opposition a
Responsible position so responsible
we must also mark a sheet of
route in relation to the trajinar and what
the paraguay will be produced
recent events are not a magic one
family of condescending events with
armed groups like the known ones
known effects groups of Paraguay
what is called what is called army
of the Paraguayan people the pp that I have already
generated this a good amount of
killed between police
and if civil citizenship as well as
kidnappings this this group is what
relates directly to those with
farc and with other sectors this
uses in the mechanism of violence
as a claim mechanism we
we live in a state of absolute right
and of democracy a good time ago and
this mechanism of impeachment is
a mechanism established in our
constitution and this in the past
times and after the events of the
curuguaty city because curuguaty
fused community inside the
Paraguay where it is established
amount lady who has certain may
be claimed not before the courts as
as a property is that who would be
belongs to the state no less true is
that for internal jesus justifies that the
which should be ordered sir fields for
make clear what you are telling us
counting says that the death of these 17
people is simply the trigger for
a crisis that comes before but
the rejection in the congress is partly the
support that has lent
the president lugo to armed groups
illegal in your country that would even have
links with groups like the group
terrorist of the farc itself is
likewise open he has claimed it if
we have reclaimed him from fernando lugo
we have asked to rectify directions
imagine jaison that now own
authentic radical liberal party that the
party support this government of
fernando lugo who is brilliant who is
that they achieved in the alliance
democratic for change as they called it
having the power today is giving
is that this is the possibility of
alternative to having to face a
impeachment so this is almost
almost unanimously in the camera
deputy where the lawsuit was filed
impeachment complaint this already
has been pronounced after deputies the
vote was 73 to 1 with that you know
giving the pattern that the political class
almost almost mostly agrees
we go beyond what can happen
Now that has to go through the
senate the congress
would act like the lower house would act
as a plaintiff in this case
I understand and the Senate would be the one
would take case out the impeachment
but we still have to go through the Senate
true indeed this is how I
I'm now in braking this has to
go through the senate that the meat has
that prepare the regulation and the libel
accusatory and good and he will have to
withdraw its defenders this I do not believe
which go far from him the
unrestricted
of the air there is a norm that marks us
our constitution and to him the due
process is going to give no guarantee and my
presence have alternated is just a
that this install the legislators
presidents of other political parties
that we have taken another determination in
this guarantee to the citizenship and
also to the international community of
that the process is going to take its due
way
we have the safeguards of the
institutionality the republic of
paraguay deputies as it was said
initially you expected the
congressmen the resignation today of fernando
or are you requesting that the
president resign because he already decided
qualify for the trial if the president in
a press conference held this
tomorrow he submits to impeachment and he
communicates that he does not intend to resign here
some an order until you want
popular and will show some demonstrations
referents of the Catholic Church of
bishopric where we analyze the
possibility that fernando lugo us
give this opportunity that he
will give up its independent mineral and
that this process we completed it
account that the next elections are
in the now facing 2013 and
we are very grateful to roberto campos
president of the beloved homeland party
very kind for his time sir fields
thank you, thank you, hello
back to Latin America very gentle